Now the tape is on, so everything is on.
I will tell you to be honest from the start
that I don't feel real suited
to do this interview. I really like your work. I've read everything. I've read some of it more than once.
I'm a real left hemisphere person
and so some of the things that you write I feel instead of
I don't see the logic, but I feel it. And so sometimes I'm going to be
grabbing for words because I just don't know how to express myself very well.
I'm better on tapers than a loud.
Well we edit this heavily and try to
make everybody sound as good as possible. It's very informal.
If you want us to repeat a question or you don't like something you said or something we said
we'll just go back and do it over with so there's no problem. And if you got to take a break or you just get tired
or whatever just let me know. So let's start it.
Okay your background is in English
and apparently you went quite far in your education in English and then
teaching and now you're a writer and you write science fiction.
How did you decide or why as a person so interested
in English do you write in the genre of science fiction?
Well the truth is that I have wanted
to be a writer since I was in about the eighth grade and I did not
necessarily want to be a science fiction writer. I wanted to be just a writer.
The reason that I am doing science fiction now
or have done primarily science fiction is that
I was first successful in submitting stories that had
a fantastic or a science fictional element and in having them
sell the other stories, the mainstream stories that I wrote
received primarily rejection slips early on
and as I said before
I'm kind of like the rat in the experimental
cage who goes to the lever and presses it and when the food
comes out of one particular lever that's the one he goes back to and continues
to press and that's the way I have done as far as
science fiction goes to some extent. It's not that I don't care for science fiction
and I'm doing it solely because it was profitable
or more profitable than the other type of writing
but simply that I ended up finding very
receptive editors in this particular field
and that accounts for it more or less.
Does science fiction give you perhaps a range
it's very forgiving as far as the subject matter and the way it's handled a little more
so than other genres. Is that attractive to you? Certainly I think that's
true. I think that science fiction does permit a writer to deal with just about
anything that he or she wishes to deal with.
You can handle contemporary events by
projecting them into the future. You can speculate about
the past. You can speculate about the distant, distant future. You can
speculate about origins and ultimate ends so that I think that really
science fiction is a tremendously flexible genre and that's one of its main
attractions to me and one of the reasons why I think I continue to write it even though
I have aspirations to do other things and have done other things.
Do you write for a particular audience
or do you write what pleases you and it
by happy chance does seem to tickle a lot of people?
I think that for the most part I try to write what interests me and I hope
then that it will interest somebody else. I've read a number of things
fairly recently which suggest that
even though my work is very well crafted
and carefully thought out that I may be
not reaching the audience that some other writers are reaching
because their work seems more readily accessible on a first look
I wish that that were not the case but I don't know how to do things any differently
than I do them. I try not to be inaccessible, that's for certain
and I do feel that some of my more recent work has reached a larger audience
than perhaps the first two or three novels that I wrote.
Okay now we'll start into the line of questions
kind of about specific works and the one I want to start with is
for the Eyes of Fire which was your first novel and that came out in 1975
and that's the first thing I read of yours because I read a very good review
of it right when it came out
and it got award nominations
but then four years later or so you came out with Eyes of Fire
and you said that if you had had your way, the text and the title of the other one would
vanish from the earth, what made you
think that the first one was so bad?
Well it's not that I thought that the first one was so bad and incidentally it's not that
I wanted to get rid of the title, I still like the title of Funeral for the Eyes of Fire
much better than I like, Simply Eyes of Fire
but my editor at Pocket Books when I rewrote the book
felt that we ought to give it a title that was new but that at the same time
reflected the fact that it was not a brand new
work that I was revising in earlier work. As far as
my feelings about a funeral for the Eyes of Fire go
the original novel published by Valentine, I just feel that I was
learning my way then, that was the first time I had ever attempted anything
at novel length, I had done short stories and novelas up to that point
but never anything of the length or the substance of
funeral and to me when I go back
and read the book now I can see all of the places where
I was obviously a beginning writer struggling to
create a narrative and very often lapsing into
many essays of one sort or another rather than
having the action proceed in a logical and really orderly fashion because of
the behavior of the characters. As a consequence
when I go back and look at it I see my characters lecturing each other
I see gaps in the narrative, I see
not inconsistencies necessarily but I just see the
awkwardness of a young writer trying to handle a form with which he's not
yet familiar. I honestly feel that in the revision
which Pocket Books and my editor there and I called Eyes of Fire
I honestly feel that there are those things are
smoothed out. I also feel that some of the thematic
material is more carefully integrated into the narrative than it was
the first time around and that I had thought a little bit more
thoroughly about that thematic material
and that's one of the reasons that I prefer Eyes of Fire
of the revision that it took original
although I wish that I could have kept the original title.
This book has
something in common with some of the other books in that it's
to some extent an anthropological study of these primitive aliens
why it's got encounters between the shaman and technology that sort of thing
the aliens were treating very shabbily. Is this kind of a
parable of some things that have happened in our past?
Well I'm sure that it's a parable of some of the things that have happened in our
past and that continue to happen in our relationships to primitive
people today and I probably should put primitive in quotes
because that's a term that is frowned upon in the
anthropological circles right now but at any rate I do think
that it was a kind of dramatic
framing of situations that have taken place in the confrontation between
advanced civilizations and supposedly primitive
in quotes of civilizations and
it seems to me that projecting it into
what, setting on a distant planet
that I was just kind of presuming that this was the sort of thing that could
happen over and over again but at the same time really it was a comment
on the conflict between
two different approaches of viewing the world one rather
the technological approach and one rather mystical
or what do you call it the left brain side
I guess. Yeah I like that well that's the right
brain but that's I'm unfortunately I'm the
other one so that's the next novel then
chronologically speaking is
I had to wait until a paperback came out
called beneath the shattered moons why
title change I'm sure that may not have been your choice I'll look up the original title
Well the original title of the poem
of Paul McLeese called Andrew Marvel
itself is a kind of answer to
by Andrew Marvel entitled to this poem
of these poems and deals
with what long experiences of time
and mankind's
fragility and smallness in comparison to these long spans of time
at any rate in and strange decadent treat I was drawing
a show that civilizations do rise and fall
and the line from Gleesha's poem seems to be to be
for Paul when the book was
sold to a paperback publisher however Donald Wolheim and Dahl books
he did not feel that that was the sort of title
that was going to be in K-Marts and bus stations
and shoe shine shops to pick up a copy of the paperback
but it needed a little more commercial title
he gave me the chance to choose various titles
and I think I made a list of the four or five shattered moons was one of them
which really kind of echoes early title by
at Christ Burroughs under the moons of Mars so I felt that that was
fairly commercial sounding and it still didn't disturb me too much
replacing it for the other although I do prefer the other title
which many people regard as pretentious
Okay, let's explore
similar to here between in strange decadent treaties and
the short story or the long short story or whatever it is
the white otters of childhood which is by far my favorite story
and to these you have the Parfax
and these people that banish mankind to some kind of island
and there are some similarities but one is in the 52nd century
one is in the 120th century so I was going to ask
stories come from the same kind of known universe
Yes, it's difficult for me to talk about this
with a great deal of authority right now because it's been so long since I
thought about either one of them
at the time though I did intend for and strange
that act pretend the trees pardon me to be a
kind of far future sequel to the white otters of childhood
in other words the situation in
and pretend the tree arises
after the colonizing of a planet in another solar system
out of the situation that prevailed on earth
as it's set forth in the story the white otters of childhood
it's difficult for me at this point really to
explain what I was going to attempt to do with those things I do know that I considered
on the street of the serpents the white otters of
childhood and strange that act pretend the trees
is a kind of trilogy a thematic trilogy if not necessarily
a trilogy in which all of the characters
are related to that sort of thing
Okay, kind of the same question
here the stories blooded on a rank in
the House of Compassionate Shareers seem to share
the same universe with stolen faces and transfigurations
is this another known universe, thread of a known universe that's kind of woven through your work
I think you're probably referring in particular
to the fact that the aliens from one story may crop up
in another the aliens from one novel may crop up
in a short story and I also used the term
galactic com I think to describe the galactic authority
which is colonizing the galaxy for us
yeah this was kind of the shorthand that I used at the time
in order to keep from having to invent a complete
colonizing authority in each story
and also because I liked some of the alien creatures that I had
come up with I didn't feel that I wanted to discard them completely so I would use
them again if possible but it wasn't really a
it wasn't terribly
systematic that's one thing I could say about it I wasn't planning to set
dozens and dozens of novels against this background
and dozens and dozens of stories
okay
the two books, The Little Knowledge and Catacombs
I want to look at them together for just a minute
Catacombs is a fusion or what I call a fusion of six previously written
stories in a new one right yeah six old stories
in a new one and then A Little Knowledge was an original novel
how did those early short stories evolve did they evolve it were you thinking
of a series and then you or did you just say
hey I confused these together and make something kind of nice out of it
well the first story that I ever wrote in that series was
the one called if a flower could eclipse and I wrote that without
thinking that I was ever going to do another story against the same background
and that of course is the urban nucleus of Atlanta the dome city
of Atlanta not a terribly original idea of the dome city but
when I wrote that story it was only the second story that I
had published and I was thinking that a future city should be a
dome city and I was trying to write science fiction of the sword
even though that particular story has a strong fantasy element as well
after I wrote that however I I guess I realized
that there were possibilities for other stories and I wrote
another one and that one was the windows in Dante's
hotel which appeared in orbit 13
I believe orbit I can't remember at this point really
one of the orbit volumes edited by Damon Knight and
at that point I guess having written the second story
I realized that I could go on and write others against the same backdrop
with some of the same characters recurring and
that was what I ended up doing really it wasn't a conscious plan from the beginning
by any means in fact I had to do
a little bit of rewriting when I went back in order to make these stories
connected in a sensible way
you mentioned that this was
the dome city of Atlanta and that dome cities
aren't that original in science fiction but I sense
when I read it that a literal dome city wasn't
your first priority that a dome city gives the writer
a chance to talk about things oh Atlanta
was isolated and it was kind of withdrawn and if I remember right the rest
of the cities and the world weren't domed and they were out among the stars
whereas Atlanta was just kind of all isolated and I wanted to
ask you in that vein why Atlanta what why did you choose Atlanta
well I should mention that I did have it set up so that
there were other cities on the North American continent that were domed in fact this
was called the Federation of Urban Nuclear so I think that there were supposed to be
approximately 20-25 cities and they would have
included New York, Chicago, Los Angeles all of the major cities on the North
American continent all of the major cities of the United States I guess you could say
so that there was a network of dome cities
the idea here however was just as you say kind of metaphorical
each one of the cities was its own universe, its own world that people were
withdrawn and isolated and they practiced the kind of
isolationism in fact in the story the windows in Dante's
Hell the old woman Amelia Longhope who is bound by
two people who were going to her apartment really
to discover what's happened to her they find that
she has created an entire world in her apartment which resembles the bridge
of a starship as from an old television program
and that she has been looking outward while her own society has been looking inward
so that was one of the things that I was trying to do with the dome city
I wasn't interested in the dome city as a technological marvel
so much as I was
I guess I was looking at each city as a kind of petri dish
and I was trying to see what the human beings
the bacteria whatever you want to call it inside that petri dish
were going to do how they were going to behave and why they were behaving
in the ways that they did so it was one way of
focusing in on the human condition in a
in an unusual way and in a metaphorical way
the aliens from 61 Cigny
were as I think aliens would probably be which is inscrutable
but you wrote about them so the question I'm really curious about
they were looking for salvation were they
were they really looking for salvation were they sincere
I pause because I really don't know what to tell you at this point
I would say that
what I wanted to happen in that story was I wanted to
examine and here I'm really going to have to stop and think because it's been a while
I wanted to examine what would be the likely consequences
of the conversion
of an alien species to a human fate
what would be the consequences to the aliens and what would be the consequences in particular to the human
being and I guess my reason for wanting to do that is that
I've always been interested in theological matters in one way or another
and this seemed to me certainly a rather extreme theological speculation
but certainly one that has a degree of validity especially if you
believe as I have a tendency to believe that there is other life in the
universe that we are not the only sentient creatures around
and that we are not the only sentient creatures around who are going to wonder
about their origins their ultimate ends what have you
yeah I would say that the
the aliens were probably really genuinely looking for a variety of
salvation at the same time they may have been trying to show that they were
despite all of their inscrutable behavior
companions to the human beings who had taken them in
that there is a kind of
brotherhood across what the sea is
face
okay the novel Stolen Faces this is one of those that I had trouble kind of
reformulating a question about because it hit me
more emotionally than it did logically but it's
more or less a leper colony and again it's got this theme
of an exiled group that's exiled because they have
this disease and it's got some characters that are really hurting
that sort of thing one of the questions I wanted to ask you about that was
which I want to talk about some other things later is the Spanish influence
did your experiences in Spain have anything to do
with this story or did it come from something else
there were several influences on that particular story and I would say that the Spanish influence
the fact that I attended my last year of high school
in Spain and an American dependent school outside of Seville
did have an influence partly because
the one foreign language that I have is Spanish that's the one foreign language
that I can deal with with any degree of authority and also that helped
the other two influences on that particular book however
were a book
I can't remember the author's name at this point but it was a study of the
Aztec civilization and Aztec culture and at the same time
another book about Father Damien who was
the leper priest on Malachi
an island in the Hawaiian group
and so my disease muformacy as I call it in that particular
novel stolen faces is a variety of leprosy I say as
much in the course of the novel itself except that it can
affect somebody
even in a temperate climate or a cold climate as well as a tropical
climate which is where Hanson's disease or leprosy usually strikes
the whole point of the book really though was to
examine the nature of prejudice and also what prejudice itself does
to those who are discriminated against
and really that's the point
of inspiration for stolen faces
Transfigurations
was the next novel and it was a continuation of
death and designation among the Asahdi
I figured it was in the same universe as
stolen faces and to me the Asahdi were
really alien which again I think real aliens would be and this was
an anthropology study and it was also as I said a continuation
of the death and designation did you just
that story you liked the background that's worth thinking
did you always have the idea of completing it and making a novel out of it
No, I never always had the
idea I think when I wrote that story back in 72 or 73
that I felt that I was pretty much finished with it that it was complete
by the time I actually undertook
to do transfigurations I had thought some more about
the characters in that story both the humans and the aliens
and I had also done a great deal of reading on human
origins a lot of which
I worked into the novel that followed that one No Enemy But Time but
at the same time I guess I was
really kind of laying the groundwork for No Enemy But Time with the research
that I did that carried me through transfigurations the reason
that I probably expanded transfigurations or
death and designation among the Asadi into a full length novel that
I called transfigurations is that by that time I was a full time writer
I knew that this was one of my most popular stories
that there had been questions about it some of the
Luthians had not been tied up and I wanted to deal with
the material again and I wanted to deal with it from
from the perspective of my new knowledge about human origins
and primate ethology that sort of thing
so that was one of the reasons that I went ahead
used the original novella as part of the text and created
a good deal of more information about new characters
and a sequel to the original novella in the course of the novel
This is
one of those real obvious questions but I have to ask it because I do want to know the answer too
In transfigurations
the aliens eyes are very important
of course a funeral for the eyes of fire or eyes of fire
just the title that goes without saying that they are and also the house of compassionate shares
and pinion fall the eyes are really important
so it seems to me that you have kind of not a fixation
but they obviously symbolize something
is that true?
Well I would say that the eyes certainly do symbolize something
I don't know whether I want to go a whole lot further than that
I guess that it has always seemed to me that the eyes
are what's the old cliche the windows of the soul
and for an alien species I think they would be
similarly a means of looking into
the heart of the creature who has those eyes
I think too I was looking early on
when I wrote the early story pinion fall which was my first story I was looking for
a way of making my aliens seem alien and one of the ways
was to describe them physically and one of the most outstanding characteristics
of any creature I think are the eyes
and how they differ from one species to another so
the aliens in pinion fall had eyes like insects
in a funeral for the eyes of fire
I guess I was again looking for a means, an exotic means
of establishing the fact that my aliens were
truly alien and by giving them different
eyes, eyes like gems that was one way of doing that
there may have been some subliminal influence too from
one of the novels of Ursula Le Guin
I'm trying to think now which was a city of illusions
I think one of her characters has very very strange eyes but Ursula Le Guin has been an influence
on me from way back and maybe that came into it to some extent too
as far as the eyes of the Asadi go
and the fact that they are a means of communication as well as
a means of seeing and also a means of feeding when you discover that
they enabled these creatures to photosynthesize part of their food
I think there I was looking at the eyes in a functional
sense as well as in a symbolic sense as if they really
were a physical component of their
make up that could help them survive
Knowing them in but time is also
an anthropology book as you said
you probably on this one had to do a lot of
homework I would think for the prehumans
Yes I've told people that I probably did
three and a half to four years of research for that book and I believe that that's true
and by that I don't mean that I was continuously researching and doing nothing
else not writing anything else but only researching
but I nevertheless did spend a great great deal of time
reading material to make
my proto humans my hominids in that book
as near to the real thing as I could imagine
so I read people like Lewis B Leakey
and Mary Leakey and Richard Leakey the entire Leakey clan, Donald Johansson
everything I could get my hands on
and scientific journals and news magazines that related to
new discoveries in East Africa, Tanzania, Kenya
wherever they happened to be Ethiopia when Donald Johansson came along
so yes I spent an awful lot of time researching
the physical nature, the stature
the possible lifestyles of these hominids but also the flora
and fauna at the same period so that I could make a credible stab
at what kinds of
other animals they would encounter
what kind of vegetation they would be living among, how they would have to go about their
survival strategies in other words so yes that took me
a lot of time. I found it very very enjoyable while I was
doing and I really kind of put it out of my mind since then
I imagine that I may come back to it later on but I have kind of
set it aside since then.
That book I personally viewed
is kind of a two-ponged
oh
it had two facets okay that engage me. One was the anthropology
the lore and that sort of thing, that was fascinating but I also really liked the
protagonist. He was really engaging, likeable
and in science fiction you, especially modern science
fiction, you don't often find that but I really like the guy.
So I would assume that
he just popped in your mind or does the character just form
gradually and that's just how he turned out eventually.
I will have to say that really he formed gradually over the
composition of the book. There were a number of things that
my plot dictated. I had to have a
character who was somehow attuned to the distant past
and particularly the distant past of Pleistocene East Africa and as a
consequence I came up with a character who had vivid dreams even
from his infancy on about this particular period
so that his attunement to the Pleistocene in East Africa would make it possible
later on for an Air Force
time program to actually send him back bodily to that period
or a simulacrum of that period as I explained it in the book
so that much I knew I was going to have to give him.
After that however I was really kind of on my own to come up
with the sort of person that he happened to be and that unfolded
for me gradually in the composition of the book and I was kind of surprised to discover
who Joshua Campa really was or the kind of character
that he really was and that was one of the nice things about writing the book too.
Did you write the book in the order that
we read it? In other words there are some alternating
chapters past to present to past to present. Did you write it that way or did you
write all the past and all the present and then cut them up?
To tell you the truth I think I wrote
alternating chapters. There were
a couple of occasions when perhaps
the episodes in the past
I may have split them up and inserted a chapter from the present or from
the near future but for the most part I actually did
go back and forth. I did not write them in the order that they actually occur in the
book however as a matter of fact the first thing in the book, the prologue, I wrote
at the very end after I had completed the composition of the entire novel.
I might also add here that David Hartwell, my editor
at Timescape, was instrumental in helping me
to cut down the book. It was considerably longer than it is
now and it's quite a long novel anyway.
He suggested the elimination of some chapters
that were really kind of peripheral to the development of Joshua Kampa
and also peripheral to the story of
his return to and his life among
the early hominids. So it would be
difficult for me right now to reconstruct the exact order in which
I wrote the individual chapters of that book but I did
write some segments in the past, come and write some in the present
and then eventually go back and
kind of shuffle them together as if I were shuffling a deck of cards
but perhaps and at least I hope so with a degree more
not the same degree of randomness.
I
read, unfortunately I wasn't there but I read that in your nebula
acceptance speech that you mentioned David Hartwell
a couple of times and mentioned that he had been helpful so I take it that
writers do appreciate it when good editors can come along
and help them see the forest
instead of the trees or the trees instead of the forest
whatever you're supposed to say. Well I owe a special debt of gratitude
to Hartwell. I would have to go back as far as a little
knowledge for instance because he helped me with that book, he helped me with catacomb years
and although he had moved over to Timescape
which then was simply a pocketbook Simon and Schuster
before he came up with the Timescape logo there
but he helped me also with transfigurations
in other words he was at Berkeley Putnam when that book was
contracted for but he moved to pocketbooks before he had a chance to work on it.
Nevertheless he did give me some help on it
and he gave me a lot of help as I've indicated
on no enemy but time. I don't know whether all writers
appreciate that sort of editorial help and direction
but I know that I can use it upon occasion and I think that
Hartwell happens to be one of the people in the field who can give
intelligent help.
Under Heaven's Bridge was a collaboration with Ian Watson
with whom you've collaborated on editing
some short stories if I remember right since then.
How did the mechanics of collaborating take place
and I also wanted to venture a guess that the aliens were mostly you
mostly your aliens. I just wanted to throw that in.
Yeah the aliens really are my aliens because
what he even wanted to do in fact what he suggested is that I write
a story about the aliens the signosticoid from
a little knowledge and catacomb years but rather than showing them
in a human environment the urban nuclei that I take them and show them
against their background of their home planet.
So I told him I think I wrote him a letter
we've been corresponding since about 1976 I believe
and I wrote him a letter and said I'm really tired of those aliens
I don't think I want to do anything else with them at all. I'm finished
with them and he wrote back at that juncture and gave me
a number of interesting ideas about them and said
it's really too bad because there are lots
of good things that we could still do with them and at that
point we decided that maybe we could go ahead and collaborate on it.
So the aliens were mine and he even wanted to see
what they would be like on their own home world
so we sent an expedition
an earth expedition to their home planet and had them encounter
those aliens there. We gave them a different name because we discovered a number of
things about
the star system 61's sickness is not really the kind of
double binary that would support the kind of life that I had
come up with in a little knowledge and catacomb years
so we had to change a few things and so I think we called them kybers
in Under Heaven's
bridge which indicates that they are a kind of
cyborg organism but naturally so
that they evolved in that fashion and as far as the
mechanics of the collaboration, Ian sent me about 30 pages of material
which included a beginning, a middle and an end and suggested
that we work from that as kind of an outline. I took those 30 pages
and expanded them to about 100 and then we simply worked on
in perpillating new chapters
in that material. I believe Ian wrote the prologue to the
book as well and I had final control over
the entire manuscript just to make sure that the style
was fairly consistent throughout.
Kay, I want to
get off now and ask a couple of questions about
poetry and how it relates to your work.
White Otters of Childhood which I said a while ago was my favorite
story. The hero was Mark Cryer-Raines and he's a poet
and he talks a lot about
poetry in the story and he quotes poetry and he said
there's a quote I remember one time where he said, you can't write poetry when your spirit
is submerged. So I wanted
to kind of delve into that. Is that you talking? Because you do
write poetry and there must be some of you and him and is that true? Is that the way
a poet works? Oh, golly. I think
I probably ought to acknowledge
a debt here to Roger Zalazny in particular. I don't know whether you know
you must know. His early story arose from Ecclesiastes which has
as its protagonist a poet and that story
of his I believe, well it is, it's my favorite story of his
and I think I was probably working with that
story in mind when I wrote The White Otters of Childhood.
I'll also have to say that I had read
recently, by that I mean before I began writing
The White Otters, I had read the poetry
of St. John Perce who was a French poet,
was a diplomat who also wrote poetry and he has a
long poem called C-Marks and
some of the lines in that particular poem suggested the title
of The White Otters of Childhood to me and also the nature of the
protagonist, also the nature of the mood that
I tried to evoke in the story. I don't think anybody has
really paid much attention to that or even noticed it even though I think I quote
from him at the head of one of the sections of the story
I use an epigraph of his at the head of one of the sections.
As far as it being impossible to write
poetry when the spirit is submerged, is that what I said?
That's what you said. Okay, I would say that that's
probably true. That disturbs me a little bit
because I find that lately I've written less and less poetry.
I'm not sure that my spirit is submerged so much as I am
that poetry does not
put food on the table whereas
prose can sometimes do that. So I have written
a lot more prose lately than I have poetry although I still like poetry
and would like to be able to write more.
What I need to do is ask you a short answer question and then flip
my tape and I have two more after that.
So I'll reverse the order because I wanted to ask the other one first.
Is science fiction poetry viable because you have written some
science fictional poetry as well. I have down here
the rhyme between Betelgeuse and
Proust and for the lady of a physicist I was kind of tickled by that rhyme.
But science fiction poetry is just a gimmick that people can use
and get into magazines. Do you think that's something that's real
and maybe will become more important?
Well I've always felt that it was possible to write poetry about anything
so that it seems to me entirely possible and viable
and legitimate to write poetry about
speculative subjects
or subjects that use science in one way or another.
Whether it's a gimmick on the part of the people who are writing it
to get into the magazines I have no idea. I'm sure that the science fiction magazines
could not publish any other type of poetry however
but poetry that deals with the speculative subject
or with science in some way or another.
Okay we need to flip our tape
if you want to take a quick break
and then we'll take a break.